1 Kings 3:5|In Gibeon the LORD appeared to Solomon in a dream by night: and God said, Ask what I shall give thee.
1 Kings 3:6|And Solomon said, Thou hast shewed unto thy servant David my father great mercy, according as he walked before thee in truth, and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with thee; and thou hast kept for him this great kindness, that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day.
1 Kings 3:7|And now, O LORD my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father: and I am but a little child: I know not how to go out or come in.
1 Kings 3:8|And thy servant is in the midst of thy people which thou hast chosen, a great people, that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude.
1 Kings 3:9|Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad: for who is able to judge this thy so great a people?
1 Kings 3:10|And the speech pleased the LORD, that Solomon had asked this thing.
1 Kings 3:11|And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life; neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies; but hast asked for thyself understanding to discern judgment;
1 Kings 3:12|Behold, I have done according to thy words: lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart; so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee.
1 Kings 3:13|And I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked, both riches, and honour: so that there shall not be any among the kings like unto thee all thy days.
1 Kings 3:14|And if thou wilt walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as thy father David did walk, then I will lengthen thy days.
1 Kings 3:15|And Solomon awoke; and, behold, it was a dream. And he came to Jerusalem, and stood before the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and offered up burnt offerings, and offered peace offerings, and made a feast to all his servants.
1 Kings 4:29|And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea shore.
1 Kings 4:30|And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east country, and all the wisdom of Egypt.
1 Kings 10:1|And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of the LORD, she came to prove him with hard questions.
1 Kings 10:2|And she came to Jerusalem with a very great train, with camels that bare spices, and very much gold, and precious stones: and when she was come to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her heart.
1 Kings 10:3|And Solomon told her all her questions: there was not any thing hid from the king, which he told her not.
1 Kings 10:4|And when the queen of Sheba had seen all Solomon's wisdom, and the house that he had built,
1 Kings 10:5|And the meat of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and their apparel, and his cupbearers, and his ascent by which he went up unto the house of the LORD; there was no more spirit in her.
1 Kings 10:6|And she said to the king, It was a true report that I heard in mine own land of thy acts and of thy wisdom.
1 Kings 10:7|Howbeit I believed not the words, until I came, and mine eyes had seen it: and, behold, the half was not told me: thy wisdom and prosperity exceedeth the fame which I heard.
1 Kings 10:8|Happy are thy men, happy are these thy servants, which stand continually before thee, and that hear thy wisdom.
1 Kings 10:9|Blessed be the LORD thy God, which delighted in thee, to set thee on the throne of Israel: because the LORD loved Israel for ever, therefore made he thee king, to do judgment and justice.
Proverbs 1:1|The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel;
Proverbs 1:2|To know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding;
Proverbs 1:3|To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity;
Proverbs 1:4|To give subtilty to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion.
Proverbs 1:5|A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels:
Proverbs 1:6|To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings.
Proverbs 1:7|The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge: but fools despise wisdom and instruction.
Proverbs 1:8|My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother:
Proverbs 1:9|For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck.
Proverbs 1:20|Wisdom crieth without; she uttereth her voice in the streets:
Proverbs 1:21|She crieth in the chief place of concourse, in the openings of the gates: in the city she uttereth her words, saying,
Proverbs 1:22|How long, ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? and the scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge?
Proverbs 1:23|Turn you at my reproof: behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you, I will make known my words unto you.
Proverbs 1:24|Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded;
Proverbs 1:25|But ye have set at nought all my counsel, and would none of my reproof:
Proverbs 1:26|I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh;
Proverbs 1:27|When your fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish cometh upon you.
Proverbs 1:28|Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me:
Proverbs 1:29|For that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the LORD:
Proverbs 1:30|They would none of my counsel: they despised all my reproof.
Proverbs 1:31|Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices.
Proverbs 1:32|For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them.
Proverbs 1:33|But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear of evil.
Proverbs 2:1|My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and hide my commandments with thee;
Proverbs 2:2|So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply thine heart to understanding;
Proverbs 2:3|Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding;
Proverbs 2:4|If thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures;
Proverbs 2:5|Then shalt thou understand the fear of the LORD, and find the knowledge of God.
Proverbs 2:6|For the LORD giveth wisdom: out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding.
Proverbs 2:7|He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous: he is a buckler to them that walk uprightly.
Proverbs 2:8|He keepeth the paths of judgment, and preserveth the way of his saints.
Proverbs 2:9|Then shalt thou understand righteousness, and judgment, and equity; yea, every good path.
Proverbs 2:10|When wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul;
Proverbs 2:11|Discretion shall preserve thee, understanding shall keep thee:
Proverbs 2:12|To deliver thee from the way of the evil man, from the man that speaketh froward things;
Proverbs 2:13|Who leave the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness;
Proverbs 2:14|Who rejoice to do evil, and delight in the frowardness of the wicked;
Proverbs 2:15|Whose ways are crooked, and they froward in their paths:
Proverbs 2:16|To deliver thee from the strange woman, even from the stranger which flattereth with her words;
Proverbs 2:17|Which forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the covenant of her God.
Proverbs 2:18|For her house inclineth unto death, and her paths unto the dead.
Proverbs 2:19|None that go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the paths of life.
Proverbs 2:20|That thou mayest walk in the way of good men, and keep the paths of the righteous.
Proverbs 2:21|For the upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall remain in it.
Proverbs 2:22|But the wicked shall be cut off from the earth, and the transgressors shall be rooted out of it.
Proverbs 3:1|My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep my commandments:
Proverbs 3:2|For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall they add to thee.
Proverbs 3:3|Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck; write them upon the table of thine heart:
Proverbs 3:4|So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man.
Proverbs 3:5|Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding.
Proverbs 3:6|In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.
Proverbs 3:7|Be not wise in thine own eyes: fear the LORD, and depart from evil.
Proverbs 3:8|It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones.
Proverbs 3:9|Honour the LORD with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase:
Proverbs 3:10|So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine.
Proverbs 3:11|My son, despise not the chastening of the LORD; neither be weary of his correction:
Proverbs 3:12|For whom the LORD loveth he correcteth; even as a father the son in whom he delighteth.
Proverbs 3:13|Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding.
Proverbs 3:14|For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold.
Proverbs 3:15|She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her.
Proverbs 3:16|Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honour.
Proverbs 3:17|Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.
Proverbs 3:18|She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her.
Proverbs 3:19|The LORD by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens.
Proverbs 3:20|By his knowledge the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop down the dew.
Proverbs 3:21|My son, let not them depart from thine eyes: keep sound wisdom and discretion:
Proverbs 3:22|So shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy neck.
Proverbs 3:23|Then shalt thou walk in thy way safely, and thy foot shall not stumble.
Proverbs 3:24|When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid: yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet.
Proverbs 3:25|Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it cometh.
Proverbs 3:26|For the LORD shall be thy confidence, and shall keep thy foot from being taken.
Proverbs 3:27|Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it.
Proverbs 3:28|Say not unto thy neighbour, Go, and come again, and to morrow I will give; when thou hast it by thee.
Proverbs 3:29|Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee.
Proverbs 3:30|Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm.
Proverbs 3:31|Envy thou not the oppressor, and choose none of his ways.
Proverbs 3:32|For the froward is abomination to the LORD: but his secret is with the righteous.
Proverbs 3:33|The curse of the LORD is in the house of the wicked: but he blesseth the habitation of the just.
Proverbs 3:34|Surely he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace unto the lowly.
Proverbs 3:35|The wise shall inherit glory: but shame shall be the promotion of fools.
Proverbs 4:5|Get wisdom, get understanding: forget it not; neither decline from the words of my mouth.
Proverbs 4:6|Forsake her not, and she shall preserve thee: love her, and she shall keep thee.
Proverbs 4:7|Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding.
Proverbs 4:8|Exalt her, and she shall promote thee: she shall bring thee to honour, when thou dost embrace her.
Proverbs 4:9|She shall give to thine head an ornament of grace: a crown of glory shall she deliver to thee.
Proverbs 4:10|Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of thy life shall be many.
Proverbs 4:11|I have taught thee in the way of wisdom; I have led thee in right paths.
Proverbs 4:12|When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble.
Proverbs 4:13|Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go: keep her; for she is thy life.
Proverbs 4:14|Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil men.
Proverbs 4:15|Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away.
Proverbs 4:16|For they sleep not, except they have done mischief; and their sleep is taken away, unless they cause some to fall.
Proverbs 4:17|For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence.
Proverbs 4:18|But the path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.
Proverbs 4:19|The way of the wicked is as darkness: they know not at what they stumble.
Proverbs 4:20|My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto my sayings.
Proverbs 4:21|Let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of thine heart.
Proverbs 4:22|For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh.
Proverbs 4:23|Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life.
Proverbs 4:24|Put away from thee a froward mouth, and perverse lips put far from thee.
Proverbs 4:25|Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee.
Proverbs 4:26|Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established.
Proverbs 4:27|Turn not to the right hand nor to the left: remove thy foot from evil.
Proverbs 5:1|My son, attend unto my wisdom, and bow thine ear to my understanding:
Proverbs 5:2|That thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy lips may keep knowledge.
Proverbs 5:21|For the ways of man are before the eyes of the LORD, and he pondereth all his goings.
Proverbs 5:22|His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cords of his sins.
Proverbs 5:23|He shall die without instruction; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray.
Proverbs 6:6|Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise:
Proverbs 6:7|Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler,
Proverbs 6:8|Provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest.
Proverbs 6:9|How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? when wilt thou arise out of thy sleep?
Proverbs 6:10|Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:
Proverbs 6:11|So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth, and thy want as an armed man.
Proverbs 6:16|These six things doth the LORD hate: yea, seven are an abomination unto him:
Proverbs 6:17|A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,
Proverbs 6:18|An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief,
Proverbs 6:19|A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren.
Proverbs 6:20|My son, keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother:
Proverbs 6:21|Bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them about thy neck.
Proverbs 6:22|When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee.
Proverbs 6:23|For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life:
Proverbs 7:1|My son, keep my words, and lay up my commandments with thee.
Proverbs 7:2|Keep my commandments, and live; and my law as the apple of thine eye.
Proverbs 7:3|Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the table of thine heart.
Proverbs 7:4|Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister; and call understanding thy kinswoman:
Proverbs 7:5|That they may keep thee from the strange woman, from the stranger which flattereth with her words.
Proverbs 8:1|Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding put forth her voice?
Proverbs 8:2|She standeth in the top of high places, by the way in the places of the paths.
Proverbs 8:3|She crieth at the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming in at the doors.
Proverbs 8:4|Unto you, O men, I call; and my voice is to the sons of man.
Proverbs 8:5|O ye simple, understand wisdom: and, ye fools, be ye of an understanding heart.
Proverbs 8:6|Hear; for I will speak of excellent things; and the opening of my lips shall be right things.
Proverbs 8:7|For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is an abomination to my lips.
Proverbs 8:8|All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing froward or perverse in them.
Proverbs 8:9|They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge.
Proverbs 8:10|Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than choice gold.
Proverbs 8:11|For wisdom is better than rubies; and all the things that may be desired are not to be compared to it.
Proverbs 8:12|I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty inventions.
Proverbs 8:13|The fear of the LORD is to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate.
Proverbs 8:14|Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am understanding; I have strength.
Proverbs 8:15|By me kings reign, and princes decree justice.
Proverbs 8:16|By me princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges of the earth.
Proverbs 8:17|I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me.
Proverbs 8:18|Riches and honour are with me; yea, durable riches and righteousness.
Proverbs 8:19|My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my revenue than choice silver.
Proverbs 8:20|I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment:
Proverbs 8:21|That I may cause those that love me to inherit substance; and I will fill their treasures.
Proverbs 8:22|The LORD possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old.
Proverbs 8:23|I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was.
Proverbs 8:33|Hear instruction, and be wise, and refuse it not.
Proverbs 8:34|Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors.
Proverbs 8:35|For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the LORD.
Proverbs 8:36|But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul: all they that hate me love death.
Proverbs 9:7|He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame: and he that rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot.
Proverbs 9:8|Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee: rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee.
Proverbs 9:9|Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser: teach a just man, and he will increase in learning.
Proverbs 9:10|The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: and the knowledge of the holy is understanding.
Proverbs 9:13|A foolish woman is clamorous: she is simple, and knoweth nothing.
Proverbs 9:14|For she sitteth at the door of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city,
Proverbs 9:15|To call passengers who go right on their ways:
Proverbs 9:16|Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: and as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him,
Proverbs 9:17|Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.
Proverbs 9:18|But he knoweth not that the dead are there; and that her guests are in the depths of hell.
Proverbs 10:1|The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother.
Proverbs 10:2|Treasures of wickedness profit nothing: but righteousness delivereth from death.
Proverbs 10:3|The LORD will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish: but he casteth away the substance of the wicked.
Proverbs 10:4|He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand: but the hand of the diligent maketh rich.
Proverbs 10:5|He that gathereth in summer is a wise son: but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame.
Proverbs 10:7|The memory of the just is blessed: but the name of the wicked shall rot.
Proverbs 10:11|The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked.
Proverbs 10:12|Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins.
Proverbs 10:13|In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found: but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding.
Proverbs 10:19|In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin: but he that refraineth his lips is wise.
Proverbs 10:20|The tongue of the just is as choice silver: the heart of the wicked is little worth.
Proverbs 10:21|The lips of the righteous feed many: but fools die for want of wisdom.
Proverbs 10:22|The blessing of the LORD, it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it.
Proverbs 10:23|It is as sport to a fool to do mischief: but a man of understanding hath wisdom.
Proverbs 10:24|The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him: but the desire of the righteous shall be granted.
Proverbs 10:25|As the whirlwind passeth, so is the wicked no more: but the righteous is an everlasting foundation.
Proverbs 10:26|As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send him.
Proverbs 11:2|When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is wisdom.
Proverbs 11:3|The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.
Proverbs 11:4|Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivereth from death.
Proverbs 11:11|By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
Proverbs 11:12|He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man of understanding holdeth his peace.
Proverbs 11:13|A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.
Proverbs 11:14|Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.
Proverbs 11:22|As a jewel of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman which is without discretion.
Proverbs 11:24|There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty.
Proverbs 11:25|The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself.
Proverbs 11:29|He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.
Proverbs 11:30|The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that winneth souls is wise.
Proverbs 11:31|Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much more the wicked and the sinner.
Proverbs 12:1|Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is brutish.
Proverbs 12:2|A good man obtaineth favour of the LORD: but a man of wicked devices will he condemn.
Proverbs 12:3|A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
Proverbs 12:4|A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.
Proverbs 12:15|The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise.
Proverbs 12:16|A fool's wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth shame.
Proverbs 12:18|There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health.
Proverbs 12:19|The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
Proverbs 12:20|Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the counsellors of peace is joy.
Proverbs 12:24|The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be under tribute.
Proverbs 12:25|Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good word maketh it glad.
Proverbs 13:1|A wise son heareth his father's instruction: but a scorner heareth not rebuke.
Proverbs 13:2|A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence.
Proverbs 13:3|He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction.
Proverbs 13:4|The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.
Proverbs 13:10|Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is wisdom.
Proverbs 13:11|Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that gathereth by labour shall increase.
Proverbs 13:12|Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life.
Proverbs 13:13|Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.
Proverbs 13:14|The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
Proverbs 13:15|Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors is hard.
Proverbs 13:20|He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of fools shall be destroyed.
Proverbs 13:24|He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.
Proverbs 14:1|Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands.
Proverbs 14:3|In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride: but the lips of the wise shall preserve them.
Proverbs 14:4|Where no oxen are, the crib is clean: but much increase is by the strength of the ox.
Proverbs 14:12|There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.
Proverbs 14:13|Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; and the end of that mirth is heaviness.
Proverbs 14:14|The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways: and a good man shall be satisfied from himself.
Proverbs 14:15|The simple believeth every word: but the prudent man looketh well to his going.
Proverbs 14:26|In the fear of the LORD is strong confidence: and his children shall have a place of refuge.
Proverbs 14:27|The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.
Proverbs 14:29|He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding: but he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.
Proverbs 14:30|A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness of the bones.
Proverbs 14:31|He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker: but he that honoureth him hath mercy on the poor.
Proverbs 14:32|The wicked is driven away in his wickedness: but the righteous hath hope in his death.
Proverbs 14:34|Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any people.
Proverbs 15:1|A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger.
Proverbs 15:2|The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright: but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness.
Proverbs 15:3|The eyes of the LORD are in every place, beholding the evil and the good.
Proverbs 15:4|A wholesome tongue is a tree of life: but perverseness therein is a breach in the spirit.
Proverbs 15:5|A fool despiseth his father's instruction: but he that regardeth reproof is prudent.
Proverbs 15:6|In the house of the righteous is much treasure: but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble.
Proverbs 15:7|The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the heart of the foolish doeth not so.
Proverbs 15:8|The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD: but the prayer of the upright is his delight.
Proverbs 15:9|The way of the wicked is an abomination unto the LORD: but he loveth him that followeth after righteousness.
Proverbs 15:10|Correction is grievous unto him that forsaketh the way: and he that hateth reproof shall die.
Proverbs 15:11|Hell and destruction are before the LORD: how much more then the hearts of the children of men?
Proverbs 15:12|A scorner loveth not one that reproveth him: neither will he go unto the wise.
Proverbs 15:13|A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken.
Proverbs 15:14|The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: but the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness.
Proverbs 15:15|All the days of the afflicted are evil: but he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast.
Proverbs 15:16|Better is little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure and trouble therewith.
Proverbs 15:17|Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
Proverbs 15:18|A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife.
Proverbs 15:19|The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the way of the righteous is made plain.
Proverbs 15:20|A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother.
Proverbs 15:21|Folly is joy to him that is destitute of wisdom: but a man of understanding walketh uprightly.
Proverbs 15:22|Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude of counsellors they are established.
Proverbs 15:23|A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in due season, how good is it!
Proverbs 15:24|The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath.
Proverbs 15:28|The heart of the righteous studieth to answer: but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.
Proverbs 15:29|The LORD is far from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of the righteous.
Proverbs 15:30|The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart: and a good report maketh the bones fat.
Proverbs 15:31|The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise.
Proverbs 15:32|He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul: but he that heareth reproof getteth understanding.
Proverbs 15:33|The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; and before honour is humility.
Proverbs 16:1|The preparations of the heart in man, and the answer of the tongue, is from the LORD.
Proverbs 16:2|All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but the LORD weigheth the spirits.
Proverbs 16:3|Commit thy works unto the LORD, and thy thoughts shall be established.
Proverbs 16:6|By mercy and truth iniquity is purged: and by the fear of the LORD men depart from evil.
Proverbs 16:7|When a man's ways please the LORD, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Proverbs 16:8|Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues without right.
Proverbs 16:9|A man's heart deviseth his way: but the LORD directeth his steps.
Proverbs 16:16|How much better is it to get wisdom than gold! and to get understanding rather to be chosen than silver!
Proverbs 16:17|The highway of the upright is to depart from evil: he that keepeth his way preserveth his soul.
Proverbs 16:18|Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall.
Proverbs 16:19|Better it is to be of an humble spirit with the lowly, than to divide the spoil with the proud.
Proverbs 16:20|He that handleth a matter wisely shall find good: and whoso trusteth in the LORD, happy is he.
Proverbs 16:21|The wise in heart shall be called prudent: and the sweetness of the lips increaseth learning.
Proverbs 16:22|Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it: but the instruction of fools is folly.
Proverbs 16:23|The heart of the wise teacheth his mouth, and addeth learning to his lips.
Proverbs 16:24|Pleasant words are as an honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
Proverbs 16:25|There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.
Proverbs 16:27|An ungodly man diggeth up evil: and in his lips there is as a burning fire.
Proverbs 16:28|A froward man soweth strife: and a whisperer separateth chief friends.
Proverbs 16:31|The hoary head is a crown of glory, if it be found in the way of righteousness.
Proverbs 16:32|He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city.
Proverbs 17:1|Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than an house full of sacrifices with strife.
Proverbs 17:3|The fining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold: but the LORD trieth the hearts.
Proverbs 17:6|Children's children are the crown of old men; and the glory of children are their fathers.
Proverbs 17:9|He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeateth a matter separateth very friends.
Proverbs 17:10|A reproof entereth more into a wise man than an hundred stripes into a fool.
Proverbs 17:12|Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man, rather than a fool in his folly.
Proverbs 17:15|He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the just, even they both are abomination to the LORD.
Proverbs 17:17|A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.
Proverbs 17:22|A merry heart doeth good like a medicine: but a broken spirit drieth the bones.
Proverbs 17:27|He that hath knowledge spareth his words: and a man of understanding is of an excellent spirit.
Proverbs 17:28|Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise: and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding.
Proverbs 18:1|Through desire a man, having separated himself, seeketh and intermeddleth with all wisdom.
Proverbs 18:2|A fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may discover itself.
Proverbs 18:10|The name of the LORD is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe.
Proverbs 18:13|He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him.
Proverbs 18:14|The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a wounded spirit who can bear?
Proverbs 18:19|A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city: and their contentions are like the bars of a castle.
Proverbs 18:21|Death and life are in the power of the tongue: and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof.
Proverbs 18:22|Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour of the LORD.
Proverbs 18:24|A man that hath friends must shew himself friendly: and there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.
Proverbs 19:8|He that getteth wisdom loveth his own soul: he that keepeth understanding shall find good.
Proverbs 19:11|The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; and it is his glory to pass over a transgression.
Proverbs 19:13|A foolish son is the calamity of his father: and the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping.
Proverbs 19:14|House and riches are the inheritance of fathers: and a prudent wife is from the LORD.
Proverbs 19:17|He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the LORD; and that which he hath given will he pay him again.
Proverbs 19:18|Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for his crying.
Proverbs 19:19|A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: for if thou deliver him, yet thou must do it again.
Proverbs 19:20|Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise in thy latter end.
Proverbs 19:21|There are many devices in a man's heart; nevertheless the counsel of the LORD, that shall stand.
Proverbs 19:25|Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware: and reprove one that hath understanding, and he will understand knowledge.
Proverbs 19:27|Cease, my son, to hear the instruction that causeth to err from the words of knowledge.
Proverbs 20:1|Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging: and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise.
Proverbs 20:3|It is an honour for a man to cease from strife: but every fool will be meddling.
Proverbs 20:4|The sluggard will not plow by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing.
Proverbs 20:5|Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out.
Proverbs 20:6|Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a faithful man who can find?
Proverbs 20:7|The just man walketh in his integrity: his children are blessed after him.
Proverbs 20:9|Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?
Proverbs 20:11|Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure, and whether it be right.
Proverbs 20:15|There is gold, and a multitude of rubies: but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel.
Proverbs 20:17|Bread of deceit is sweet to a man; but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel.
Proverbs 20:18|Every purpose is established by counsel: and with good advice make war.
Proverbs 20:20|Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness.
Proverbs 20:22|Say not thou, I will recompense evil; but wait on the LORD, and he shall save thee.
Proverbs 20:24|Man's goings are of the LORD; how can a man then understand his own way?
Proverbs 20:27|The spirit of man is the candle of the LORD, searching all the inward parts of the belly.
Proverbs 20:28|Mercy and truth preserve the king: and his throne is upholden by mercy.
Proverbs 20:29|The glory of young men is their strength: and the beauty of old men is the grey head.
Proverbs 21:1|The king's heart is in the hand of the LORD, as the rivers of water: he turneth it whithersoever he will.
Proverbs 21:2|Every way of a man is right in his own eyes: but the LORD pondereth the hearts.
Proverbs 21:3|To do justice and judgment is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice.
Proverbs 21:9|It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman in a wide house.
Proverbs 21:13|Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard.
Proverbs 21:19|It is better to dwell in the wilderness, than with a contentious and an angry woman.
Proverbs 21:20|There is treasure to be desired and oil in the dwelling of the wise; but a foolish man spendeth it up.
Proverbs 21:21|He that followeth after righteousness and mercy findeth life, righteousness, and honour.
Proverbs 21:22|A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty, and casteth down the strength of the confidence thereof.
Proverbs 21:23|Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from troubles.
Proverbs 21:30|There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the LORD.
Proverbs 21:31|The horse is prepared against the day of battle: but safety is of the LORD.
Proverbs 22:1|A GOOD name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favour rather than silver and gold.
Proverbs 22:2|The rich and poor meet together: the LORD is the maker of them all.
Proverbs 22:3|A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself: but the simple pass on, and are punished.
Proverbs 22:4|By humility and the fear of the LORD are riches, and honour, and life.
Proverbs 22:5|Thorns and snares are in the way of the froward: he that doth keep his soul shall be far from them.
Proverbs 22:6|Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it.
Proverbs 22:7|The rich ruleth over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender.
Proverbs 22:8|He that soweth iniquity shall reap vanity: and the rod of his anger shall fail.
Proverbs 22:9|He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed; for he giveth of his bread to the poor.
Proverbs 22:10|Cast out the scorner, and contention shall go out; yea, strife and reproach shall cease.
Proverbs 22:11|He that loveth pureness of heart, for the grace of his lips the king shall be his friend.
Proverbs 22:15|Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child; but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him.
Proverbs 22:20|Have not I written to thee excellent things in counsels and knowledge,
Proverbs 22:21|That I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth; that thou mightest answer the words of truth to them that send unto thee?
Proverbs 22:24|Make no friendship with an angry man; and with a furious man thou shalt not go:
Proverbs 22:25|Lest thou learn his ways, and get a snare to thy soul.
Proverbs 22:28|Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set.
Proverbs 22:29|Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men.
Proverbs 23:4|Labour not to be rich: cease from thine own wisdom.
Proverbs 23:5|Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? for riches certainly make themselves wings; they fly away as an eagle toward heaven.
Proverbs 23:12|Apply thine heart unto instruction, and thine ears to the words of knowledge.
Proverbs 23:13|Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die.
Proverbs 23:14|Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from hell.
Proverbs 23:22|Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy mother when she is old.
Proverbs 23:23|Buy the truth, and sell it not; also wisdom, and instruction, and understanding.
Proverbs 24:1|Be not thou envious against evil men, neither desire to be with them.
Proverbs 24:2|For their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of mischief.
Proverbs 24:3|Through wisdom is an house builded; and by understanding it is established:
Proverbs 24:4|And by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with all precious and pleasant riches.
Proverbs 24:5|A wise man is strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength.
Proverbs 24:10|If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small.
Proverbs 24:13|My son, eat thou honey, because it is good; and the honeycomb, which is sweet to thy taste:
Proverbs 24:14|So shall the knowledge of wisdom be unto thy soul: when thou hast found it, then there shall be a reward, and thy expectation shall not be cut off.
Proverbs 24:15|Lay not wait, O wicked man, against the dwelling of the righteous; spoil not his resting place:
Proverbs 24:16|For a just man falleth seven times, and riseth up again: but the wicked shall fall into mischief.
Proverbs 24:17|Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth:
Proverbs 24:18|Lest the LORD see it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him.
Proverbs 24:19|Fret not thyself because of evil men, neither be thou envious at the wicked;
Proverbs 24:20|For there shall be no reward to the evil man; the candle of the wicked shall be put out.
Proverbs 24:29|Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me: I will render to the man according to his work.
Proverbs 24:30|I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding;
Proverbs 24:31|And, lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down.
Proverbs 24:32|Then I saw, and considered it well: I looked upon it, and received instruction.
Proverbs 24:33|Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:
Proverbs 24:34|So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth; and thy want as an armed man.
Proverbs 25:2|It is the glory of God to conceal a thing: but the honour of kings is to search out a matter.
Proverbs 25:4|Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a vessel for the finer.
Proverbs 25:6|Put not forth thyself in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great men:
Proverbs 25:7|For better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up hither; than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen.
Proverbs 25:11|A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver.
Proverbs 25:13|As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of his masters.
Proverbs 25:15|By long forbearing is a prince persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone.
Proverbs 25:19|Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint.
Proverbs 25:21|If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink:
Proverbs 25:22|For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the LORD shall reward thee.
Proverbs 25:25|As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.
Proverbs 25:27|It is not good to eat much honey: so for men to search their own glory is not glory.
Proverbs 25:28|He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down, and without walls.
Proverbs 26:4|Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him.
Proverbs 26:5|Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.
Proverbs 26:11|As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to his folly.
Proverbs 26:12|Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? there is more hope of a fool than of him.
Proverbs 26:13|The slothful man saith, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the streets.
Proverbs 26:14|As the door turneth upon his hinges, so doth the slothful upon his bed.
Proverbs 26:15|The slothful hideth his hand in his bosom; it grieveth him to bring it again to his mouth.
Proverbs 26:16|The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason.
Proverbs 26:17|He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears.
Proverbs 26:18|As a mad man who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death,
Proverbs 26:19|So is the man that deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am not I in sport?
Proverbs 26:20|Where no wood is, there the fire goeth out: so where there is no talebearer, the strife ceaseth.
Proverbs 26:21|As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; so is a contentious man to kindle strife.
Proverbs 26:22|The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
Proverbs 26:23|Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with silver dross.
Proverbs 26:24|He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, and layeth up deceit within him;
Proverbs 26:25|When he speaketh fair, believe him not: for there are seven abominations in his heart.
Proverbs 26:26|Whose hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be shewed before the whole congregation.
Proverbs 26:27|Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolleth a stone, it will return upon him.
Proverbs 26:28|A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it; and a flattering mouth worketh ruin.
Proverbs 27:1|Boast not thyself of to morrow; for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth.
Proverbs 27:2|Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth; a stranger, and not thine own lips.
Proverbs 27:5|Open rebuke is better than secret love.
Proverbs 27:6|Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.
Proverbs 27:7|The full soul loatheth an honeycomb; but to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet.
Proverbs 27:9|Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart: so doth the sweetness of a man's friend by hearty counsel.
Proverbs 27:10|Thine own friend, and thy father's friend, forsake not; neither go into thy brother's house in the day of thy calamity: for better is a neighbour that is near than a brother far off.
Proverbs 27:17|Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.
Proverbs 27:18|Whoso keepeth the fig tree shall eat the fruit thereof: so he that waiteth on his master shall be honoured.
Proverbs 27:19|As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man.
Proverbs 27:20|Hell and destruction are never full; so the eyes of man are never satisfied.
Proverbs 27:21|As the fining pot for silver, and the furnace for gold; so is a man to his praise.
Proverbs 28:1|The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but the righteous are bold as a lion.
Proverbs 28:6|Better is the poor that walketh in his uprightness, than he that is perverse in his ways, though he be rich.
Proverbs 28:9|He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be abomination.
Proverbs 28:13|He that covereth his sins shall not prosper: but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy.
Proverbs 28:23|He that rebuketh a man afterwards shall find more favour than he that flattereth with the tongue.
Proverbs 28:26|He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool: but whoso walketh wisely, he shall be delivered.
Proverbs 29:2|When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.
Proverbs 29:11|A fool uttereth all his mind: but a wise man keepeth it in till afterwards.
Proverbs 29:15|The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame.
Proverbs 29:17|Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest; yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul.
Proverbs 29:18|Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy is he.
Proverbs 29:20|Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope of a fool than of him.
Proverbs 29:25|The fear of man bringeth a snare: but whoso putteth his trust in the LORD shall be safe.
Proverbs 29:26|Many seek the ruler's favour; but every man's judgment cometh from the LORD.
Proverbs 30:4|Who hath ascended up into heaven, or descended? who hath gathered the wind in his fists? who hath bound the waters in a garment? who hath established all the ends of the earth? what is his name, and what is his son's name, if thou canst tell?
Proverbs 30:5|Every word of God is pure: he is a shield unto them that put their trust in him.
Proverbs 30:6|Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar.
Proverbs 30:7|Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die:
Proverbs 30:8|Remove far from me vanity and lies: give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with food convenient for me:
Proverbs 30:9|Lest I be full, and deny thee, and say, Who is the LORD? or lest I be poor, and steal, and take the name of my God in vain.
Proverbs 30:11|There is a generation that curseth their father, and doth not bless their mother.
Proverbs 30:12|There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet is not washed from their filthiness.
Proverbs 30:13|There is a generation, O how lofty are their eyes! and their eyelids are lifted up.
Proverbs 30:14|There is a generation, whose teeth are as swords, and their jaw teeth as knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy from among men.
Proverbs 30:17|The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it.
Proverbs 30:24|There be four things which are little upon the earth, but they are exceeding wise:
Proverbs 30:25|The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their meat in the summer;
Proverbs 30:26|The conies are but a feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks;
Proverbs 30:27|The locusts have no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands;
Proverbs 30:28|The spider taketh hold with her hands, and is in kings' palaces.
Proverbs 30:32|If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if thou hast thought evil, lay thine hand upon thy mouth.
Proverbs 30:33|Surely the churning of milk bringeth forth butter, and the wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood: so the forcing of wrath bringeth forth strife.
Proverbs 31:10|Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies.
Proverbs 31:11|The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil.
Proverbs 31:12|She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life.
Proverbs 31:13|She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands.
Proverbs 31:14|She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar.
Proverbs 31:15|She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens.
Proverbs 31:16|She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard.
Proverbs 31:17|She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms.
Proverbs 31:18|She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night.
Proverbs 31:19|She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff.
Proverbs 31:20|She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.
Proverbs 31:21|She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet.
Proverbs 31:22|She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple.
Proverbs 31:23|Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land.
Proverbs 31:24|She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant.
Proverbs 31:25|Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come.
Proverbs 31:26|She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness.
Proverbs 31:27|She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness.
Proverbs 31:28|Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.
Proverbs 31:29|Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all.
Proverbs 31:30|Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the LORD, she shall be praised.
Proverbs 31:31|Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates.
Ecclesiastes 1:9|The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that which is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.
Ecclesiastes 1:10|Is there any thing whereof it may be said, See, this is new? it hath been already of old time, which was before us.
Ecclesiastes 1:11|There is no remembrance of former things; neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after.
Ecclesiastes 3:1|To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven:
Ecclesiastes 3:9|What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboureth?
Ecclesiastes 3:10|I have seen the travail, which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised in it.
Ecclesiastes 3:11|He hath made every thing beautiful in his time: also he hath set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end.
Ecclesiastes 3:14|I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever: nothing can be put to it, nor any thing taken from it: and God doeth it, that men should fear before him.
Ecclesiastes 3:15|That which hath been is now; and that which is to be hath already been; and God requireth that which is past.
Ecclesiastes 3:16|And moreover I saw under the sun the place of judgment, that wickedness was there; and the place of righteousness, that iniquity was there.
Ecclesiastes 3:17|I said in mine heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked: for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.
Ecclesiastes 4:9|Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour.
Ecclesiastes 4:10|For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him that is alone when he falleth; for he hath not another to help him up.
Ecclesiastes 4:11|Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can one be warm alone?
Ecclesiastes 4:12|And if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.
Ecclesiastes 5:2|Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to utter any thing before God: for God is in heaven, and thou upon earth: therefore let thy words be few.
Ecclesiastes 5:3|For a dream cometh through the multitude of business; and a fool's voice is known by multitude of words.
Ecclesiastes 5:4|When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for he hath no pleasure in fools: pay that which thou hast vowed.
Ecclesiastes 5:5|Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest vow and not pay.
Ecclesiastes 7:8|Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
Ecclesiastes 7:9|Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in the bosom of fools.
Ecclesiastes 7:13|Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he hath made crooked?
Ecclesiastes 7:14|In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider: God also hath set the one over against the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him.
Ecclesiastes 9:10|Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave, whither thou goest.
Ecclesiastes 9:11|I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favour to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all.
Ecclesiastes 9:12|For man also knoweth not his time: as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare; so are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falleth suddenly upon them.
Ecclesiastes 9:13|This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seemed great unto me:
Ecclesiastes 9:14|There was a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it:
Ecclesiastes 9:15|Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same poor man.
Ecclesiastes 9:16|Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.
Ecclesiastes 9:17|The words of wise men are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools.
Ecclesiastes 9:18|Wisdom is better than weapons of war: but one sinner destroyeth much good.
Ecclesiastes 10:1|Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour: so doth a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom and honour.
Ecclesiastes 11:4|He that observeth the wind shall not sow; and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap.
Ecclesiastes 11:5|As thou knowest not what is the way of the spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child: even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all.
Ecclesiastes 11:6|In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thine hand: for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good.
Ecclesiastes 12:9|And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge; yea, he gave good heed, and sought out, and set in order many proverbs.
Ecclesiastes 12:10|The preacher sought to find out acceptable words: and that which was written was upright, even words of truth.
Ecclesiastes 12:11|The words of the wise are as goads, and as nails fastened by the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.
Ecclesiastes 12:12|And further, by these, my son, be admonished: of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.
Ecclesiastes 12:13|Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man.
Ecclesiastes 12:14|For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.
